packages/plugins/README.md, before:

@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins
=========================

This package is intended for Microsoft use only and should be consumed through @microsoft/botframework-cli. It is not designed to be consumed as an independent package.

[![oclif](https://img.shields.io/badge/cli-oclif-brightgreen.svg)](https://oclif.io)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins)
[![Downloads/week](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins.svg)](https://github.com/https://github.com/microsoft//botframework-cli/blob/master/package.json)

<!-- toc -->
* [Commands](#commands)
<!-- tocstop -->
# Commands
<!-- commands -->
* [`bf plugins`](#bf-plugins)
* [`bf plugins:install PLUGIN`](#bf-pluginsinstall-plugin)
* [`bf plugins:list`](#bf-pluginslist)
* [`bf plugins:uninstall [PLUGIN]`](#bf-pluginsuninstall-plugin)

## `bf plugins`

Install, uninstall and show installed plugins

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins

OPTIONS
  --help  Display plugins commands help.
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/index.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/index.ts)_

## `bf plugins:install PLUGIN`

Installs a plugin into the BF CLI

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins:install PLUGIN

ARGUMENTS
  PLUGIN  plugin to install

OPTIONS
  -f, --force    yarn install with force flag
  -h, --help     show CLI help
  -v, --verbose

DESCRIPTION
  Installation of a user-installed plugin will override a core plugin.
  e.g. If you have a core plugin that has a 'hello' command, installing a user-installed plugin with a 'hello' command 
  will override the core plugin implementation. 
  This is useful if a user needs to update core plugin functionality in the CLI without the need to patch and update the 
  whole CLI.

ALIASES
  $ bf plugins:add
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/install.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/install.ts)_

## `bf plugins:list`

List installed plugins

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins:list

OPTIONS
  --core  show core plugins
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/list.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/list.ts)_

## `bf plugins:uninstall [PLUGIN]`

Removes a plugin from the BF CLI

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins:uninstall [PLUGIN]

ARGUMENTS
  PLUGIN  plugin to uninstall

OPTIONS
  -h, --help     show CLI help
  -v, --verbose
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/uninstall.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/uninstall.ts)_
<!-- commandsstop -->

Commit message:

Update plugins Readme (#680)
* Update plugins Readme

* Update README.md

* Minor formatting

Co-authored-by: Eyal <eyals@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: Chris Mullins <cleemullins@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/plugins/README.md, after:

@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins
=========================

This package is intended for Microsoft use only and should be consumed through @microsoft/botframework-cli. It is not designed to be consumed as an independent package.

[![oclif](https://img.shields.io/badge/cli-oclif-brightgreen.svg)](https://oclif.io)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins)
[![Downloads/week](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@microsoft/bf-cli-plugins.svg)](https://github.com/https://github.com/microsoft//botframework-cli/blob/master/package.json)

## Synopsis
_BF_ plugins command group allows you to extend the CLI with preview commands. Only microsoft scoped plugins are allowed to be installed.

## Available plugins

[@microsoft/bf-dialog](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog)
```
npm config set registry https://botbuilder.myget.org/F/botframework-cli/npm/

bf plugins:install @microsoft/bf-dialog

npm config set registry https://registry.npmjs.org/
```
<!-- toc -->
* [Commands](#commands)
<!-- tocstop -->
# Commands
<!-- commands -->
* [`bf plugins`](#bf-plugins)
* [`bf plugins:install PLUGIN`](#bf-pluginsinstall-plugin)
* [`bf plugins:list`](#bf-pluginslist)
* [`bf plugins:uninstall [PLUGIN]`](#bf-pluginsuninstall-plugin)

## `bf plugins`

Install, uninstall and show installed plugins

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins

OPTIONS
  --help  Display plugins commands help.
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/index.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/index.ts)_

## `bf plugins:install PLUGIN`

Installs a plugin into the BF CLI

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins:install PLUGIN

ARGUMENTS
  PLUGIN  plugin to install

OPTIONS
  -f, --force    yarn install with force flag
  -h, --help     show CLI help
  -v, --verbose

DESCRIPTION
  Installation of a user-installed plugin will override a core plugin.
  e.g. If you have a core plugin that has a 'hello' command, installing a user-installed plugin with a 'hello' command 
  will override the core plugin implementation. 
  This is useful if a user needs to update core plugin functionality in the CLI without the need to patch and update the 
  whole CLI.

ALIASES
  $ bf plugins:add
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/install.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/install.ts)_

## `bf plugins:list`

List installed plugins

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins:list

OPTIONS
  --core  show core plugins
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/list.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/list.ts)_

## `bf plugins:uninstall [PLUGIN]`

Removes a plugin from the BF CLI

```
USAGE
  $ bf plugins:uninstall [PLUGIN]

ARGUMENTS
  PLUGIN  plugin to uninstall

OPTIONS
  -h, --help     show CLI help
  -v, --verbose
```

_See code: [src/commands/plugins/uninstall.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/plugins/src/commands/plugins/uninstall.ts)_
<!-- commandsstop -->
