packages/dialog/README.md, before:

@microsoft/bf-dialog
====================

This package is intended for Microsoft use only and should be consumed through @microsoft/botframework-cli. It is not designed to be consumed as an independent package.

[![oclif](https://img.shields.io/badge/cli-oclif-brightgreen.svg)](https://oclif.io)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@microsoft/bf-dialog.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-dialog)
[​![Downloads/week](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@microsoft/bf-dialog.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-dialog)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@microsoft/bf-dialog.svg)](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/blob/master/package.json)

# Relevant docs
- [Dialog documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/docs/readme.md)

# Commands
<!-- commands -->
- [@microsoft/bf-dialog](#microsoftbf-dialog)
- [Relevant docs](#relevant-docs)
- [Commands](#commands)
  - [`bf dialog`](#bf-dialog)
  - [`bf dialog:merge PATTERNS`](#bf-dialogmerge-patterns)
  - [`bf dialog:verify PATTERNS`](#bf-dialogverify-patterns)

## `bf dialog`

Dialog related commands for working with .schema and .dialog files.

```
USAGE
  $ bf dialog

OPTIONS
  -h, --help  Dialog command help
```

_See code: [src/commands/dialog/index.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/blob/v1.0.0/src/commands/dialog/index.ts)_

## `bf dialog:merge PATTERNS`

Merge `<kind>.schema` and `<kind>[.<locale>].uischema` definitions from a project and its dependencies into a single .schema for describing .dialog files and a per locale .uischema for describing how Composer shows them.  If a dependent package has an "exported" directory it is copied to /<package> in the --imports directory.

```
USAGE
  $ bf dialog:merge PATTERNS

ARGUMENTS
  PATTERNS  Any number of glob regex patterns to match .csproj, .nuspec or package.json files.

OPTIONS
  -c, --checkOnly        Check and do not write files.
  -h, --help             show CLI help

  -o, --output=output    Output path and optional filename for merged .schema and .uischema.  Defaults to first project
                         name.

  -s, --schema=schema    Path to merged .schema file to use if merging .uischema only.

  -v, --verbose          Show verbose logging of files as they are processed.

  --extension=extension  [default: .dialog,.lg,.lu,.schema,.qna,.uischema] Extension to include as a resource.

  --imports=imports      Output path for imported assets.  Defaults to the directory of --out with an imported
                         directory.

EXAMPLES
  $ bf dialog:merge myProject.csproj plugins/*.nuspec
  $ bf dialog:merge package.json -o app.schema
```

_See code: [src/commands/dialog/merge.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/blob/v1.0.0/src/commands/dialog/merge.ts)_

## `bf dialog:verify PATTERNS`

Verify .dialog files match their app.schema.

```
USAGE
  $ bf dialog:verify PATTERNS

ARGUMENTS
  PATTERNS  Any number of glob regex patterns to match .dialog files.

OPTIONS
  -h, --help           show CLI help
  -s, --schema=schema  Default schema to use if no $schema in dialog file.
  -v, --verbose        Show verbose output
```

_See code: [src/commands/dialog/verify.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/blob/v1.0.0/src/commands/dialog/verify.ts)_
<!-- commandsstop -->

Commit message:

Hash line ending agnostic and import exclusion bug (#1095)
* Make hashing line ending agnostic.
Fix bug where imports were not excluded properly.
Added obj to exclusions.

* Add missing wildcard.

Co-authored-by: Chris McConnell <chrimc>

packages/dialog/README.md, after:

@microsoft/bf-dialog
====================

This package is intended for Microsoft use only and should be consumed through @microsoft/botframework-cli. It is not designed to be consumed as an independent package.

[![oclif](https://img.shields.io/badge/cli-oclif-brightgreen.svg)](https://oclif.io)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@microsoft/bf-dialog.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-dialog)
[​![Downloads/week](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/@microsoft/bf-dialog.svg)](https://npmjs.org/package/@microsoft/bf-dialog)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/@microsoft/bf-dialog.svg)](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/blob/master/package.json)

# Relevant docs
- [Dialog documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/docs/readme.md)

# Commands
<!-- commands -->
- [@microsoft/bf-dialog](#microsoftbf-dialog)
- [Relevant docs](#relevant-docs)
- [Commands](#commands)
  - [`bf dialog`](#bf-dialog)
  - [`bf dialog:merge PATTERNS`](#bf-dialogmerge-patterns)
  - [`bf dialog:verify PATTERNS`](#bf-dialogverify-patterns)

## `bf dialog`

Dialog related commands for working with .schema and .dialog files.

```
USAGE
  $ bf dialog

OPTIONS
  -h, --help  Dialog command help
```

_See code: [src/commands/dialog/index.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/blob/v1.0.0/src/commands/dialog/index.ts)_

## `bf dialog:merge PATTERNS`

Merge `<kind>.schema` and `<kind>[.<locale>].uischema` definitions from a project and its dependencies into a single .schema for describing .dialog files and a per locale .uischema for describing how Composer shows them.  If a dependent package has an "exported" directory it is copied to /<package> in the --imports directory. You can make use of negative patterns like !**/generated/** to exclude particular directories or files, although some directories like bin, obj and node_modules are automatically excluded.

```
USAGE
  $ bf dialog:merge PATTERNS

ARGUMENTS
  PATTERNS  Any number of glob regex patterns to match .csproj, .nuspec or package.json files.

OPTIONS
  -c, --checkOnly        Check and do not write files.
  -h, --help             show CLI help

  -o, --output=output    Output path and optional filename for merged .schema and .uischema.  Defaults to first project
                         name.

  -s, --schema=schema    Path to merged .schema file to use if merging .uischema only.

  -v, --verbose          Show verbose logging of files as they are processed.

  --extension=extension  [default: .dialog,.lg,.lu,.schema,.qna,.uischema] Extension to include as a resource.

  --imports=imports      Output path for imported assets.  Defaults to the directory of --out with an imported
                         directory.

EXAMPLES
  $ bf dialog:merge myProject.csproj plugins/*.nuspec
  $ bf dialog:merge package.json -o app.schema
```

_See code: [src/commands/dialog/merge.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/blob/v1.0.0/src/commands/dialog/merge.ts)_

## `bf dialog:verify PATTERNS`

Verify .dialog files match their app.schema.

```
USAGE
  $ bf dialog:verify PATTERNS

ARGUMENTS
  PATTERNS  Any number of glob regex patterns to match .dialog files.

OPTIONS
  -h, --help           show CLI help
  -s, --schema=schema  Default schema to use if no $schema in dialog file.
  -v, --verbose        Show verbose output
```

_See code: [src/commands/dialog/verify.ts](https://github.com/microsoft/botframework-cli/tree/master/packages/dialog/blob/v1.0.0/src/commands/dialog/verify.ts)_
<!-- commandsstop -->
